Figure 1: Taken directly from GPT-4 Technical Report (OpenAI, 2023b). To get a sense of how quickly
model capabilities are progressing – consider the jump in exam performance between GPT-3.5 and GPT-4
(OpenAI, 2023b).
Our study is motivated less by the progress of these models alone though, and more by the breadth,
scale, and capabilities we’ve seen in the complementary technologies developed around them. The role of
complementary technologies remains to be seen, but maximizing the impact of LLMs appears contingent
on integrating them with larger systems (Bresnahan, 2019; Agrawal et al., 2021). While the focus of our
discussion is primarily on the generative capabilities of LLMs, it is important to note that these models can
also be utilized for various tasks beyond text generation. For example, embeddings from LLMs can be used
for custom search applications, and LLMs can perform tasks such as summarization and classification where
the context may be largely contained in the prompt.
To complement predictions of technology’s impacts on work and provide a framework for understanding
the evolving landscape of language models and their associated technologies, we propose a new rubric
for assessing LLM capabilities and their potential effects on jobs. This rubric (A.1) measures the overall
exposure of tasks to LLMs, following the spirit of prior work on quantifying exposure to machine learning
(Brynjolfsson et al., 2018; Felten et al., 2018; Webb, 2020). We define exposure as a proxy for potential
economic impact without distinguishing between labor-augmenting or labor-displacing effects. We employ
human annotators and GPT-4 itself as a classifier to apply this rubric to occupational data in the U.S. economy,
primarily sourced from the O*NET database.12
To construct our primary exposure dataset, we collected both human annotations and GPT-4 classifications,
using a prompt tuned for agreement with a sample of labels from the authors. We observe similar agreement
1This is distinct from recent social science research that makes use of LLMs to simulate human behavior (Horton, 2023; Sorensen
et al., 2022)
2While our exposure rubric does not necessarily tie the concept of language models to any particular model, we were strongly
motivated by our observed capabilities of GPT-4 and the suite of capabilities we saw in development with OpenAI’s launch partners
(OpenAI, 2023b).