Woodstock ’18, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Liu et. al.
Fig. 4. Distribution of Likert scale responses on NASA-TLX, creativity support index, and workflow-specific questions across all
participants for the music visualization task. Full questions are in the Supplemental Material.
6.1.1
Creativity Support Index Metrics. Generative Disco performed well in terms of Creativity Support Index (CSI) [24]
metrics. Responses to all questions were on a 7-point Likert scale and are visualized in the middle subplot within Figure 4.
All twelve participants rated the system a 6 or 7 for enjoyment (median:7). Ten of 12 participants gave positive feedback
(positive defined as ≥ 5 out of 7) that the results were worth their effort (median: 6.5). Eight of twelve participants agreed
that they could sufficiently explore a number of outcomes without tedious interaction (median: 6). Expressiveness was
similarly generally positive (median: 5.5).
There was a slight split in opinion on control (“I had control over the intervals and the video I was generating”, median:
5) Nine of twelve participants rated it 5 or higher. The remaining three participants found the system difficult to control,
a problem that characterizes many generative workflows. One participant mentioned that such a system might be
more difficult to use if someone has an exact picture in mind (e.g a girl singing on top of a car). There was a similar
divergence of opinion for Ability (“I generated videos I would have otherwise not been able to create.”). Nine of twelve
participants rated it highly in agreement (median: 7), while three participants gave it a 1 or 2.
6.1.2
NASA-TLX Metrics. The majority of participants found the performance of the system to be very positive
(median: 6). The vast majority also did not find the system to be frustrating, temporally demanding (median:2), mentally
demanding (median: 2), or effort-intensive (median: 3). Almost every participant (11/12) responded that their frustration
during the task was low (low defined as ≤ 3 out of 7, median: 2). See the right side of Figure 4.
6.1.3
Workflow-Specific Questions. Next, we discuss participant responses to workflow-specific questions about
Generative Disco. Participants were asked about the usefulness of Generative Disco to their workflow. Responses to
these questions are visualized in Figure 4. The majority (7 of 12) rated the system positively for how closely it allowed
12