Generative Disco: Text-to-Video Generation for Music Visualization
VIVIAN LIU, Columbia University, USA
TAO LONG, Columbia University, USA
NATHAN RAW, Rochester Institute of Technology, USA
LYDIA CHILTON, Columbia University, USA
Fig. 1. Generative Disco is a text-to-video system for music visualization. Generative Disco guides users to work in intervals over
a music waveform and to find generated images that define how intervals start and end. Interpolating between these images to
the beat of the music creates stylized music visualization. Two design patterns, transitions and holds, guide the generative process.
Transitions express change along dimensions such as color, time, subject, and style, and holds create focus on a subject.
Visuals can enhance our experience of music, owing to the way they can amplify the emotions and messages conveyed within it.
However, creating music visualization is a complex, time-consuming, and resource-intensive process. We introduce Generative Disco,
a generative AI system that helps generate music visualizations with large language models and text-to-video generation. The system
helps users visualize music in intervals by finding prompts to describe the images that intervals start and end on and interpolating
between them to the beat of the music. We introduce design patterns for improving these generated videos: transitions, which express
shifts in color, time, subject, or style, and holds, which help focus the video on subjects. A study with professionals showed that
transitions and holds were a highly expressive framework that enabled them to build coherent visual narratives. We conclude on the
generalizability of these patterns and the potential of generated video for creative professionals.
CCS Concepts: • Applied computing → Media arts; Computer-aided design; • Human-centered computing → Interactive
systems and tools; • Computing methodologies → Natural language processing; Computer vision tasks.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components
of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to
redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2018 Association for Computing Machinery.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
1
arXiv:2304.08551v2  [cs.HC]  28 Sep 2023