Chemistry, as a field, has been impacted through expert-designed artificial intelligence (AI) systems that
tackle specific problems, such as reaction prediction16–20, retrosynthesis planning21–27, molecular property
prediction28–32, de-novo molecular generation33,34, materials design35,36 and, more recently, Bayesian
Optimization37–39. Due to the nature of their training, it has been shown that code-generating LLMs
do possess some understanding of chemistry14. By understanding, we mean that LLMs are capable of
adapting to observations, planning over multiple steps, and responding correctly to intent13,40–44. However,
the automation levels achieved in chemistry remain relatively low compared to other domains, primarily
due to its highly experimental nature, the lack of data, as well as the limited scope and applicability of
computational tools, even within their designated areas45.
Integrating such tools tends to occur within isolated environments, such as RXN for Chemistry18,24,46–48
and AIZynthFinder25,49,50, facilitated by corporate directives that promote integrability. Although most
tools are developed by the open-source community or made accessible through application programming
interfaces (API), their integration and interoperability pose considerable challenges for experimental
chemists, mainly due to their lack of computational skill set and the diversity of tools with steep learning
curves, thereby preventing the full exploitation of their potential.
Figure 1: Overview and toolset. a) An overview of the task-solving process. Using a variety of chemistry-
related packages and software, a set of tools is created. These tools and a user input are then given to an
LLM. The LLM then proceeds through an automatic, iterative chain-of-thought process, deciding on its
path, choice of tools, and inputs before coming to a final answer. The example shows the synthesis of
DEET, a common insect repellent. b) Toolsets implemented in ChemCrow: reaction, molecule, safety,
search, and standard tools.
Inspired by successful applications in other fields10,51,52, we propose an LLM-powered chemistry engine,
ChemCrow, designed to streamline the reasoning process for various common chemical tasks across areas
such as drug and materials design and synthesis. ChemCrow harnesses the power of multiple expert-
designed tools for chemistry and operates by prompting an LLM (GPT-4 in our experiments) with specific
instructions about the task and the desired format, as shown in Figure 1a. The LLM is provided with a list
of tool names, descriptions of their utility, and details about the expected input/output. It is then instructed
to answer a user-given prompt using the tools provided when necessary. The model is guided to follow the
Thought, Action, Action Input, Observation format43, which requires it to reason about the current state
of the task, consider its relevance to the final goal, and plan the next steps accordingly, demonstrating its
level of understanding. After the reasoning in the Thought step, the LLM requests a tool (preceded by the
2