learn generic (non personalized) rules about where
objects typically go inside a house by averag-
ing over many users (Taniguchi et al., 2021;
Kant et al., 2022; Sarch et al., 2022). Works
that focus on personalization aim to extrapolate
from a few user examples given similar choices
made by other users, using methods such as
collaborative filtering (Abdo et al., 2015), spa-
tial relationships (Kang et al., 2018), or learned
latent preference vectors (Kapelyukh and Johns,
2022). However, all of these approaches require
collecting large datasets with user preferences or
generating datasets from manually constructed,
simulated scenarios. Such datasets can be expen-
sive to acquire and may not generalize well if they
are too small.
Our approach is to utilize the summarization
capabilities of large language models (LLMs) to
provide generalization from a small number of
example preferences. We ask a person to provide
a few example object placements using textual
input (e.g., yellow shirts go in the drawer, dark
purple shirts go in the closet, white socks go in
the drawer), and then we ask the LLM to summa-
rize these examples (e.g., light-colored clothes go
in the drawer and dark-colored clothes go in the
closet) to arrive at generalized preferences for this
particular person.
Fig. 1 We study the task of household cleanup, where each
object on the floor must be picked up and put away while
following user preferences.
We investigate the proposed approach in a
real-world robotic mobile manipulation system
for household cleanup, which we call TidyBot
(Fig. 1). Before the robot begins cleanup, we ask
the user to provide a handful of example place-
ments for specific objects, which are passed to an
LLM to be summarized into a generalized set of
rules (personalized to that user) mapping object
categories to receptacles. The nouns of these gen-
eralized rules are provided to an open-vocabulary
image classifier in order to identify objects on the
floor and determine target receptacles for them
using the rules. The robot will then carry out
the cleanup task by repeatedly picking up objects,
identifying them, and moving them to their target
receptacles.
We evaluate our approach quantitatively on