A. Preparing pairwise correspondences
Our method uses pairwise correspondences from existing
methods, such as RAFT [66] and TAP-Net [15], and con-
solidates them into dense, globally consistent, and accurate
correspondences that span an entire video. As a preprocess-
ing stage, we exhaustively compute all pairwise correspon-
dences (i.e., between every pair of frames i and j) and filter
them using cycle consistency and appearance consistency
checks.
When computing the flow field between a base frame
i and a target frame j as i → j, we always use the flow
prediction for the previous target frame (i → j − 1) as ini-
tialization for the optical flow model (when possible). We
find this improves flow predictions between distant frames.
Still, the flow predictions between distant frames can contain
significant errors, and therefore we filter out flow vector esti-
mates with cycle consistency errors (i.e., forward-backward
flow consistency error) greater than 3 pixels.
Despite this filtering process, we still frequently observe
a persistent type of error that remains undetected by cycle
consistency checks. This type of spurious correspondence,
illustrated in Fig. 5, occurs because flow networks can strug-
gle to estimate motion for regions that undergo significant
deformation between the two input frames, and instead opt
to interpolate motion from the surrounding areas. In the ex-
ample in Fig. 5, this leads to flow on the foreground person
“locking on” to the background layer instead. This behavior
results in incorrect flows that survive the cycle consistency
check, since they are consistent with a secondary layer’s
motion (e.g., background motion). To address this issue,
we additionally use an appearance check: we extract dense
features for each pixel using DINO [10] and filter out cor-
respondences whose features’ cosine similarity is < 0.5.
In practice, we apply the cycle consistency check for all
pairwise flows and supplement it with an appearance check
when the two frames are more than 3 frames apart. We found
this filtering process consistently eliminates major errors in
flow fields across different sequences without per-sequence
tuning. The results of our filtering approach, after both cycle
and appearance consistency checks, are illustrated in Fig. 6.
One drawback of such a filtering process is that it will
also remove correct flows for regions that become occluded
in the target frame. For certain correspondence methods
(such as RAFT), including these motion signals during oc-
clusion events can result in better final motion estimates.
Therefore, we devise a simple strategy for detecting reliable
flow in occluded regions. For each pixel, we compute its
forward flow to a target frame (a), cycle flow (flow back to
the source frame from the target pixel) (b), and a second for-
ward flow (c). This process effectively amounts to a 2-pass
cycle consistency check: the consistency between (a) and
(b) forms a standard cycle consistency check, and the consis-
tency between (b) and (c) forms a secondary, supplementary
Figure 5: Erroneous correspondences after cycle consistency
check. The red bounding box highlights a common type of incorrect
correspondences from flow networks like RAFT [66] that remains
undetected by cycle consistency check. The left images are query
frames with query points and the right images are target frames
with the corresponding predictions. Only correspondences on the
foreground object are shown for better clarity.
Figure 6: Correspondences from RAFT [66] after both cycle and
appearance checks. The left column shows a single query frame,
and the right column displays target frames with increasing frame
distances to the query frame from top to bottom. The filtered
correspondences are reliable without significant errors.
one. We identify pixels where (a) and (b) are inconsistent
but (b) and (c) are consistent and deem these to be occluded
pixels. We found this approach effective in identifying reli-
able flows for occluded regions—particularly when the two
frames are close to each other. Therefore, we allow these
correspondences to bypass cycle consistency checks if they
span a temporal distance of less than 3 frames. Our exper-
iments use this added signal for the variant of our method
that uses RAFT flow, but not for the TAP-Net variant, as we
found the predicted correspondences from the latter were
13