we construct a distribution over scenarios (detailed in Section A7) and perform experiments separately.
This is a single-step setting with single acceptable option per step.
KNOWNO achieves target task success rate consistently.
First, we investigate whether KNOWNO
and the baselines achieve a given target task success rate consistently in the three settings — we set the
failure level ϵ=0.15. In Fig. 3 we show the difference between achieved and target rates for all methods.
Results show that KNOWNO achieve the least deviations overall, due to the coverage guarantee from CP.
Simple Set and Ensemble Set cannot achieve coverage consistently. Prompt Set, Binary, and No Help have
larger deviations from the target since the user has no control over the error rate. Also, as the scenarios get
increasingly ambiguous (least in Attribute and most in Spatial), the baselines show larger deviations.
KNOWNO achieves high task success rate with lower human help as ϵ varies.
In Fig. 4 we vary
the target error rate ϵ and show the curves of task success rate vs. prediction set size and human help
rate averaged over the three settings. For KNOWNO, Simple Set, and Ensemble Set, specifying a lower
ϵ improves the empirical task success rate while also requiring more human help. The most natural
comparison is between KNOWNO and Simple Set, as both use next-token probabilities from the LLM as
the confidence score. KNOWNO achieves higher success-to-help ratios across ϵ levels, thanks to calibrated
confidence from CP. Meanwhile, Prompt Set and Binary do not allow controlling success rates. Prompt Set
performs the worst, indicating the challenge of prompting-based methods for calibrated prediction sets.
Binary works favorably at some success levels, but lacks flexibility and doesn’t provide prediction sets for
human feedback. In addition, Fig. A10 shows the results for individual ambiguity settings. As the scenarios
become more ambiguous, KNOWNO shows a greater reduction of human help compared to Simple Set —
as much as 24% at certain success levels.
Prediction set size
Task success rate
Task success rate
lower
Human help rate
lower
Figure 4: Comparison of task success rate vs average prediction set size
(Left) and vs. human help rate (Right) in Simulation averaged over the three
settings. 200 trials are run for each method. ϵ is varied from 0.25 to 0.01 for
KNOWNO, and from 0.6 to 0.01 for Simple Set and Ensemble Set. Binary
and No Help are not shown on the left since prediction sets are not provided.
Ensemble Set can perform well
but is computationally expensive.
Fig. 4 also shows that Ensemble
Set provides high task success rate
with small amount of human help
at higher ϵ levels. However, there
are two main drawbacks. First, we
find in some scenarios that even
with 20 randomized prompts, the
LLM can fail to choose the correct
option and thus assigns zero proba-
bility to it. As shown in Fig. 4, this
means that Ensemble Set can fail
to improve once it reaches some
level of human help. Second, it re-
quires 20× inference time compared to other methods. Investigating how to lower the computational
burden and combining ensemble-based probabilities with CP can be a fruitful future direction.
4.2
Hardware: Multi-Step Tabletop Rearrangement
In this example, a UR5 robot arm is asked to sort a variety of toy food items on a table (Fig. 5 left). In
each scenario, three items are placed on the table initially, and the task is to sort them based on human
preferences; we simulate a human with strong preferences for healthy food like eggs and fruits, and dislike
for less healthy food like donuts and Skittles candies. To introduce ambiguities, the context for the LLM
reveals only a subset of the preferences. Here we consider a multi-step setting with possibly multiple
acceptable options per step — the LLM plans the new step conditioned on the previous action taken.
KNOWNO reduces step-wise and trial-wise intervention rates in multi-step setting.
Since Section 4.1
has shown that Ensemble Set can be expensive (even more so in the multi-step setting) and Prompt Set
and Binary can fail to achieve the user-specified success level, we focus on comparing KNOWNO with
Simple Set for the remainder of the evaluation. Here we set the desired error level ϵ=0.25. Since Simple
Set does not provide calibrated coverage, we first find ϵ=0.42 for Simple Set to achieve the same planning
error rate as KNOWNO in simulation. Then we run 50 trials for both methods in hardware. Table 1 shows
7