and is robust to leg breaking requires 20 evolution experiment
repetitions (Fitness > 600 in Fig. 3a). In Fig. 3a, training
fitness between 500 and 600 typically indicates either (1)
a viable forward gait behavior that is only robust to 3/4
legs breaking or (2) a policy robust to any leg breaking
but which operates at a high frequency not viable for a
real robot, with its reward being significantly penalized by
fitness shaping as a result. Within the single best repeat, the
NSGA-II search algorithm produces a variety of policies with
performance trade-offs between smooth forward locomotion
(reward objective) and stability (steps objective), Fig. 3b.
From this final set of individuals, we select a single policy
to compare with the single best policy from each baseline.
Due to practical wall-clock time limits, we were only able
to train both ARS+MLP and ARS+LSTM policies up to 106
trials in total, but found that under this sample limit, even
the best ARS policy only achieved a reward of 360, much
lower than the 570 found by the best ARZ policy, suggesting
that ARZ can even be more sample efficient than standard
neural network baselines.
Fig. 4 confirms that ARZ is the only method capable of
building a controller that is robust to multiple different legs
breaking mid-episode. We plot post-training test results for
one champion ARZ policy in comparison with the single-
best controller discovered by ARS+MLP and ARS+LSTM.
ARZ’s adaption quality (as measured by mean reward) is
Front-Right
Front-Left
Back-Right
Back-Left
None
200
400
Average Re
Fig. 4: ARZ discovers the only policy that can adapt to any leg breaking.
The plot shows test results for the single best policy from ARZ and ARS
baselines (MLP and LSTM) in the mid-episode leg-breaking task. For each
leg, bars show mean reward over 100 episodes in which that leg is broken
at a randomly selected timestep. A reward < 400 in any column indicates
the majority of test episodes for that leg ended with a fall.
that can avoid falling in all scenarios, although in the case of
the front-left leg breaking, it has trouble maintaining forward
motion, Fig. 5. This is reflected in its relatively weak test
reward for the front-left leg (See Fig. 4). The MLP policy
manages to keep walking with a broken back-right leg but
falls in all other dynamic tasks. The LSTM, finally, is only
able to avoid falling in the stationary task in which all legs
are reliable.