4
OpenAgents
In OpenAgents, we develop three distinct agents: namely the Data Agent for data analysis, the
Plugins Agent for plugin integration, and the Web Agent for autonomous web browsing. The three
agents are experts in different domains, just like OpenAI’s ChatGPT Plugins (OpenAI, 2023a).
Moreover, our implementation is purely based on the top of open language APIs (and theoretically
any other open-sourced LLMs), such as GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023b), and Claude (Anthropic, 2023).
We hope OpenAgents can serve as a pioneer in the move towards democratizing potent, real-world
language agents. Further, we contend that OpenAgents can serve as an experimental testbed for
researchers across various disciplines who share an interest in the future trajectory of language
agents.
4.1
DATA AGENT
Generate
Data 
Agent
Execute
Program
Data Tools
Figure 3: Pipeline (left) and demonstrations (mid and right) of Data Agent.
The data agent has been designed and implemented to deal with a wide spectrum of data-related
tasks that real users encounter daily. We support code generation and execution in two programming
languages: Python and SQL. We also integrate several data tools for the agent to use: (1) Kaggle
Data Search (datasets search on Kaggle via calling API); (2) Data Profiling (heuristic data profiling
providing basic data information); (3) ECharts Tool (interactive ECharts plotting). We prompt the
agent to proactively use these data tools to respond to user requests. Recognizing the intensive
coding requirements for data agent, we have opted to embed language models in the tool, and let the
tools generate code rather than the agent. Specifically, tools such as Python, SQL, and ECharts will
generate code, thereby harnessing the language models’ full programming prowess and alleviating
the strain on the agent itself.
Equipped with these data tools, the agent adeptly manages various data-centric requests. It tran-
scends the boundaries of mere text and code generation to proficiently perform data queries, vi-
sualization, manipulation tasks, etc. An illustrative example is depicted in Figure 3, where users
can upload custom files, such as tables and images, and make successive inquiries about the up-
loaded data. While we’ve highlighted the data agent’s key capabilities, the full potential of our data
agent extends beyond this brief overview. Much like OpenAI’s Advanced Data Analysis(previously
known as Code Interpreter) (OpenAI, 2023a), we hope the data agent can serve as a versatile tool
for myriad user workflows; for more use cases, please see Appendix B.1.
4.2
PLUGINS AGENT
The plugin agent has been meticulously designed to cater to the multifaceted requirements of users’
daily tasks which necessitate additional plugins, such as shopping, searching, news reading, weather
forecasting, and website creation. We have integrated over 200 plugins from various sources, some
of the prominent plugins include (1) Google Search; (2) Wolfram Alpha; (3) Zapier; (4) Klarna; (5)
Coursera; (6) Show Me; (7) Speak; (8) AskYourPDF; (9) BizToc; and (10) Klook. Special attention
has been paid to ping the APIs, function calling interface, and API response length, enabling LLM-
based agents to optimally leverage these plugins.
Users can choose one or multiple plugins they would like to let their agent leverage based on the
given instructions of their needs. Examples can be observed in Figure 4. In instances where users
6