After the LLM generates four options, we append an additional option ‘an option not listed here’ to the
four generated ones and then randomize the order to further prevent bias. We then use a zero-shot prompt
in Fig. A2 for querying next-token probabilities (‘A’, ‘B’, ‘C’, D’, ‘E’).
We: You are a robot operating in an office kitchen. You are in front of a counter with two closed drawers, 
a top one and a middle one. There is also a landfill bin, a recycling bin, and a compost bin.
We: On the counter, there is a Coke, a bottled unsweetened tea, and a Pepsi. 
We: Put the Coke in the drawer please.
You:
A) pick up the coke 
B) pick up the coke and put it in the top drawer
C) pick up the coke and put it in the bottom drawer
D) an option not listed here
E) pick up the pepsi
We: Which option is correct? Answer with a single letter.
You:
Figure A2: Prompt used for next-token prediction with generated multiple choices in Mobile Manipulation.
A7
Additional Experiment Details
Environments.
In addition to Fig. 1 and Fig. 5, here Fig. A3 shows the office kitchen environment
with the set of drawers and bins used in Mobile Manipulation (left), and the bimanual setup with the set
of objects used on the mat used in Bimanual (right). There is another set of drawers used in the mobile
manipulation experiments underneath a much bigger countertop not shown here.
KnowNo
white shallow container
Figure A3: (Left) Office kitchen environment with drawers and bins for Mobile Manipulation. (Right) Bimanual setup
with the set of objects used in the experiments.
Scenario Distribution and Calibration Dataset Next, we provide more details on the parameterization
of the scenario distribution in each experiment setting, in particular, the possible ambiguities with the
instruction and goal. With the distributions set up, the calibration dataset are then generated by randomly
sampling 400 i.i.d. scenarios from them:
• Simulated setting:
– Environment: there are always three blocks and bowls of color red, yellow, and green with random
locations on the table.
– Goal: we use the following template: {put, place, move} {a, one, a single of, two, a pair of, three,
all, red, yellow, green} {block(s), bowl(s)} {on, to the left of, to the right of, to the front of, at
the back of} the {red, green, yellow} {block(s), bowl(s)}. The scenario distribution is uniform
over these possibilities.
– Instruction: for the language instructions, we modify the goal (from the template) according to
the ambiguity type. The scenario distribution is uniform over the listed ambiguous cases in each
ambiguity type.
* Attribute ambiguities: refer to the block as one of “cube”, “cuboid”, “box”, “square object”, to
the bowl as one of “container”, “round object”, “receptacle”, or to either block or bowl as one
of “object”, “item”, “thing” (“move the blue object in yellow bowl”); refer to “blue” as one of
“cyan”, “navy”, to “green” as one of “greenish”, “grass-colored”, and to “yellow” as “orange”
or “gold”. This setting is the least ambiguous one among the three ambiguity types.
* Numeric ambiguities: refer to either two or three numerically with one of “a few”, “a couple
of”, “some”, “a handful of” (“put some blocks in the green bowl”).
* Spatial ambiguities: refer to any of the four possible directions with “near”, “close to”, “beside”,
“next to”, refer to either left to right with “lateral to”, and refer to either front or behind with
18