Robot
Human
The plastic one, please.
Which one, plastic or metal?
0.44 - Put plastic bowl in microwave.
0.41 - Put metal bowl in microwave.
0.03 - Put metal bowl in landﬁll bin
0.08 - Put plastic bowl in recycling bin.
Number of possible steps > 0.21 = 2
Prediction size 2 > 1 → ask for help.
Prediction Set from Conformal Prediction
Conformal Prediction
Trigger Human Help
Question: Which one, plastic or metal?
LLM Generates Question
Conformal prediction threshold: 0.21
Steps with scores above threshold:
0.44 - Put plastic bowl in microwave.
0.41 - Put metal bowl in microwave.
Figure 1: KNOWNO uses Conformal Prediction (CP) to align the uncertainty of LLM planners. Given a language
instruction, an LLM generates possible next steps and its confidences (scores) in these options. CP then provides a
prediction set that includes the options with scores above a certain quantile. If there is more than one option in the set,
the robot asks for help. Experiments across multiple embodiments and a variety of ambiguous situations show that
KNOWNO significantly improves efficiency and autonomy compared to baselines.
approaches do not provide a way to ensure that asking for help results in a desired level of task success. We
formalize these challenges via two desiderata: (i) calibrated confidence: the robot should seek sufficient
help to ensure a statistically guaranteed level of task success specified by the user, and (ii) minimal help:
the robot should minimize the overall amount of help it seeks by narrowing down possible ambiguities
in a task. We collectively refer to these sufficiency and minimality conditions as uncertainty alignment.
Statement of contributions. We propose KNOWNO— Know When You Don’t Know — a framework for
aligning the uncertainty of LLM-based planners utilizing the theory of conformal prediction (CP) [3, 4].
We make the following contributions: (1) Given a language instruction, we utilize a pre-trained LLM with
uncalibrated confidence to generate a set of possible actions for the robot to execute next. We demonstrate
how to use CP to select a subset of these options, which allows the robot to decide an action to execute (if
the subset is a singleton) or to ask for help otherwise. (2) We prove theoretical guarantees on calibrated
confidence in both single-step and multi-step planning problems: with a user-specified level 1−ϵ, the
robot performs the tasks correctly in 1−ϵ % of scenarios by asking for help when it deems it necessary.