Discriminator
Refined 3D Model
Discrimination Loss
a DSLR photo of a bunch of white jasmine
Image-to-Image 
Pipeline
Real Data
Figure 2. Pipeline of IT3D. Begin from a coarse 3D model, IT3D first generate a tiny posed dataset leveraging image-to-image pipeline
conditioning on rendering of the coarse 3D model. Then incorporate a randomly initialized discriminator to distill knowledge form the
generated dataset and update the 3D model with discrimination loss and SDS loss.
(a) L2 Loss
(c) L2 Loss + SDS Loss
(b) GAN Loss
(d) GAN Loss + SDS Loss (Ours)
Coarse NeRF
3D model of hulk, highly detailed 
Dataset Generated by image-to-image Pipeline 
Figure 3. Top: Results for different loss setting. Bottom: Data samples generated through image-to-image pipeline. Prompt: a
3D model of hulk, highly detailed, full body. The generated dataset incorporate 60 camera views and 5 samples for each view. Given
such a tiny but high variance dataset, (a) and (b) tend to result in noised refinement without the help of strong denoising ability of SDS
loss. Comparing (c) and (d), (c) compromises to the average of generated dataset while (d) successfully bridge the distribution gap
between coarse NeRF and generated dataset.
generation techniques driven by diffusion models. Building
on this insight, we seek to tackle these concerns through the
incorporation of 2D image generation techniques (Fig. 2).
We will show that high-quality multi-view images of 3D
models that are free from the aforementioned issues can be
generated at a low cost (Section 4.1).
However, the intrinsic randomness of 2D generative
models gives rise to content inconsistencies across differ-
ent views [13, 25]. This inherent nature leads to consid-
erable difficulties in effectively leveraging these generated
images. To harness the potential of the generated dataset
more effectively, we propose an innovative approach in-
volving the integration of a discriminator [3].
This dis-
criminator serves to better distill knowledge from the gen-
erated datasets, thereby guiding the training process of the
3D model (Section 4.2).
Despite the proficiency of 3D GANs in accommodating
high variance datasets, the computational expense associ-