Figure 5: Safety guidelines provided by ChemCrow Example task, where safety information is explicitly
requested along with the synthesis procedure for paracetamol (left). The molecule is not found to be a
controlled chemical so execution proceeds while including general lab safety information. In cases where
the input molecule is found to be a controlled chemical (right), execution stops with a warning indicating
that it is illegal and unethical to propose compounds with similar properties to a controlled chemical.
of proprietary information, need to be established. Collaboration with legal experts, as well as industry
stakeholders, can help in navigating these complex issues and implementing appropriate measures to
protect intellectual property.
In summary, it is crucial to carefully consider and address the potential drawbacks associated with LLM-
powered chemistry engines, such as ChemCrow, to ensure their safe and responsible application. By
integrating expert-designed tools, the issue of model hallucination can be mitigated, while improving the
quality and breadth of training data can enhance the engine’s understanding of complex chemistry concepts.
Implementing effective mitigation strategies, such as access controls, safety guidelines, and ethical policies,
further contributes to minimizing risks and maximizing the positive impact of these engines on the field of
chemistry. As the technology continues to evolve, collaboration and vigilance among developers, users, and
industry stakeholders are essential in identifying and addressing new risks and challenges74,75, fostering
responsible innovation and progress in the domain of LLM-powered chemistry engines.
4
Conclusion
In this study, we have demonstrated the development of ChemCrow, a novel LLM-powered method for
integrating computational tools in chemistry. By combining the reasoning power of LLMs with the chemical
expert knowledge from computational tools, ChemCrow showcases one of the first chemistry-related LLM
agent interactions with the physical world. ChemCrow has successfully planned and synthesized an insect
repellent, three organocatalysts, and guided the screening and synthesis of a novel chromophore with target
7