Generative Disco: Text-to-Video Generation for Music Visualization
Woodstock ’18, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
Fig. 5. Examples of different ways participants could chunk their music into intervals. P3 chunked their music around lyrics. P4
interacted with more non-lyrical elements like slides, bass, and beats. P2 captured a drop in their metalcore song. At interval
boundaries, a fork between two images indicates that participants made a cut between the two images.
them to engage with the music (median: 5). Nine of twelve rated the system positively for audiovisual alignment
(“The system helped me come up with visuals that aligned with the music.”, median: 5). Eleven of twelve participants
were positive about the helpfulness of the specific brainstorming area, which was where GPT-4 contributed prompt
suggestions (median: 5.5). Nine of twelve participants were positive that the brainstorming features was helpful, which
was when sets of style keywords populated the brainstorming area (median: 5.5). When asked if Generative Disco
would be a useful addition to their current video / music workflow, six of the participants responded with a 5 or 6 for
agreement (median: 4.5).
7
QUALITATIVE FEEDBACK
7.1
Transitions and Holds as Design Patterns
To answer RQ2 (“What patterns of text-to-video generation emerge when users use transitions and holds to
create music visualization?") we first provide qualitative feedback from participants and later provide an analysis of
the generated intervals.
7.1.1
Patterns of Engagement with Music. Participants were able to flexibly engage with the music–the intervals they
created captured a variety of elements from basic beats, vocalizations, and notes to overarching segments like lyrics
and structural changes within the music (e.g. beat drops). A visual depiction of the different ways participants could
chunk their music is pictured in Fig. 5.
Five of twelve participants (P3, P12, P6, P5, P7) took a lyric-forward approach with their music. P3 chunked their
music segment around lyrics. In the first and third lyric intervals (pictured in Figure 5), the visuals hardly change–P3
holds on these images. In the second interval however, P3 creates a color transition from blue to rainbow to express the
lyrics "live a life you will remember" with fullness and color. Three of twelve participants interacted more with specific
elements within the music, particularly when they were working with their original music (P8, P10, P11). P10 brought
in a techno song with a groove that they had composed. They chunked their audio in segments based on whether it
contained percussive elements or not. A frame-by-frame view of their music visualization is shown in Figure 6. They
commented on their visual exploration in the following quote.
13