Chameleon: Plug-and-Play Compositional Reasoning
with Large Language Models
Pan Lu1, Baolin Peng2, Hao Cheng2, Michel Galley2
Kai-Wei Chang1, Ying Nian Wu1, Song-Chun Zhu1, Jianfeng Gao2
1University of California, Los Angeles
2Microsoft Research, Redmond
lupantech@gmail.com
{bapeng, chehao, mgalley, jfgao}@microsoft.com
https://chameleon-llm.github.io
Answer Generator
- The question is about identifying the main persuasive appeal used in an advertisement. 
- There are three main types of persuasive appeals: ethos, pathos, and logos. 
- Ethos is an appeal to the speaker's or writer's credibility, character, or authority. 
- Pathos is an appeal to the audience's emotions, feelings, or sympathies. 
- Logos is an appeal to logic, reason, or rationality, using facts, statistics, or arguments. 
[194, 21]: Earthzy paper
[244, 70]: plates now
[172, 112]: carry the Sierra
[231, 159]: Club seal of
[275, 198]: approval
Analyze the advertisement to determine which persuasive appeal is used. The 
ad mentions that Earthzy paper plates carry the Sierra Club seal of approval. 
This implies that the product is environmentally friendly and has been endorsed 
by a reputable organization. This appeal is primarily based on the credibility 
and authority of the Sierra Club, which is an example of ethos (character).
Bing Search
Solution Generator
Query Generator
Which is the main persuasive 
appeal used in this ad?
(A) pathos (emotion)
(B) ethos (character)
(C) logos (reason)
ethos (character)
What is the direction of this push?
(A) away from the baseball bat 
(B) toward the baseball bat
Image Captioner
Knowledge Retrieval
Answer Generator
Solution Generator
Image Captioner
Answer Generator
Solution Generator
Knowledge Retrieval
Text Detector
Which animal’s skin is adapted 
for survival in cold places?
(A) Eurasian lynx 
(B) Thorny Devil
1
1
2
2
3
3
Figure 1: Examples from our Chameleon with GPT-4 on ScienceQA [30], a multi-modal question
answering benchmark in scientific domains. Chameleon is adaptive to different queries by synthe-
sizing programs to compose various tools and executing them sequentially to get final answers.
Abstract
Large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable progress in solving
04.09842v2  [cs.CL]  24 May 2023