Example for ‘Combine two unrelated things’: The point in-
dicates the lizard, but the mask covers both the lizard and a
bird. This is a mask error.
Example error for ‘Failure to consistently handle obscuring
foreground objects’: The pole on the right (blue arrow) is
excluded from the mask, while the pole on the left is in-
cluded in the object (black arrow). The mask should either
include or exclude both of these.
Example of ‘Pixelation of a small mask’: this mask has an
imperfect boundary, since it extends beyond the object at
the black arrow. However, the ‘blocky’ pattern of the mask
is not an error, since, when zoomed in this much, the image
is also blocky the same way.
Example error for consistency with the provided point: The
mask does not agree with the blue point, so this is a mask
error.
Example for consistency with the provided point: For this
input point, but the logo (left) and the container (right) are
valid objects, since the blue point lies on both of them. Nei-
ther mask has a mask error.
Example for consistency with a box: The box surrounds the
bowl of oranges, but the mask is only of a single orange.
This is a mask error.
Example for consistency with a box: The box’s shape ﬁts
the zebra. Even though the mask extends slightly outside
the box to include the zebra’s left leg, this is not an error.
Overall mask quality is subjective, each of the above errors may hurt mask quality only a little or a
lot, depending on how large the error is. Please use your best judgment when choosing mask scores,
and try to stay consistent from mask-to-mask. Here are some general guidelines for what different
scores should correspond to:
•
A score of 1: It is not possible to tell what object this mask corresponds to. This includes the
case that there is no mask visible at all.
•
A low score (2-4): The object is mostly identiﬁable, but the mask quality is extremely poor
(e.g. large regions of the mask cover other objects; large regions of the object missing; ex-
tremely splotchy mask boundaries that cut through the middle of the object).
•
A mid score (5-6): The object is identiﬁable and the boundary is mostly correct, but there
are major errors (missing a signiﬁcant disconnected part of the object; containing a signiﬁcant
part of another object; very poor boundary quality in one area of the object but not the entire
object).
•
A high score (7-9): The object is identiﬁable and errors are small and rare (missing a small,
heavily obscured disconnected component, having small regions where the mask boundary
does not quite match the object boundary).
•
A score of 10: The mask is pixel-perfect; it has no identiﬁable errors at all.
Mask Scoring
Example of a mask with a score of 1: It is not clear what
object this mask corresponds to.
Example of a mask with a low score (2-4): The main ob-
ject is identiﬁable, but the mask includes a large, incorrect
portion of another object.
Example of a mask with a low score (2-4): The main ob-
ject is identiﬁable, but a large, random part of the object is
missing.
Example of a mask with a low-to-medium score (4-5): The
object is identiﬁable and the edges are all correct, but the
mask incorrectly includes the hand of the person on the left.
Example of a mask with a medium score (5-6): The mask
clearly corresponds to the plate, but the boundary with the
wafﬂe is quite poor.
Example of a mask with a medium score (5-6): the object
is easy to identify, and most of the edges make sense. How-
ever, there is a signiﬁcant disconnected part (their arm inside
the frame) that is mostly missing, as well as splotchy pixels
in this region.
Example of a mask with a medium-to-high score (6-8): the
mask has two small-ish regions of poor boundary, at the top
of the mask and on the bottom right.
Example of a mask with a medium-to-high score (6-8): The
wreath is a valid object that is the size of the box (the entire
wreath + clock would also be a valid object). However, there
are incorrect stray mask pixels on the clock.
Example of a mask with a high score (7-9): The boundary of
the horse is almost entirely correct, except for the right side
of its back leg. The mask consistently includes all of the
equipment that horse is wearing, and has logical boundaries.
Example of a mask with a very high score (∼9): There are
only minor errors around the edge of the mask. The blocky
‘pixelation’ is not an error, since the image is also blocky at
this scale.
Example of a mask with a very high score (9-10): the mask
has only very minor errors in the edge on the bottom right.
Example of a mask with a very high score (9-10): There are
only minor errors around the edge of the mask.
Figure 20: Here we provide the complete guidelines given to annotations for the human review of mask quality. Some images
been edited slightly and faces have been blurred to enable release. Best viewed with zoom (part 2 of 2).
30