ViNT
Goal
Figure 3: Long-horizon navigation in unseen environments with ViNT. We use physical search with a
topological graph-based planner to explore the environment. An image-to-image diffusion model proposes
diverse exploration targets which are spatially grounded using ViNT (yellow), and scored using a goal-directed
heuristic h. Subgoals are added to the topological graph M and executed using the ViNT policy.
Training objective: During training, we first sample a minibatch of trajectories τ from the dataset
D. We then choose P consecutive observations to form the temporal context ot:t−P and randomly
select a future observation os := ot+d, with d sampled uniformly from [lmin, lmax], to serve as the
subgoal [35]. The corresponding H future actions ˆa := at:t+H and the distance d are used as labels
and trained with a maximum likelihood objective:
LViNT(ϕ, ψ, f) = EτEtEd [log p(ˆa|f(ψ(o)t:t−P , ϕ(ot, os)) + λ log p(d|f(ψ(o)t:t−P , ϕ(ot, os))]
(1)
where ϕ, ψ, f are as defined above, and λ balances the two losses.
Embodiment-agnostic action space: To effectively train a single model across robots of varying
sizes, speeds, and dynamics, we follow Shah et al. [19] and choose an embodiment-agnostic action
space for ViNT. To abstract away low-level control, ViNT uses relative waypoints as its action space
ˆa; to account for the large variance in speeds and sizes of the robots, we normalize these waypoints
by scaling them according to the robot’s top speed. During deployment, a robot-specifc controller is
used to un-normalize and track these waypoints using low-level control.
Training data: We train ViNT using a large-scale dataset of heterogeneous navigation trajectories
from a diverse set of environments and robotic platforms with varying dynamics, camera parame-
ters, and behaviors. The training dataset contains over 100 hours of real-world trajectories sourced
entirely from existing datasets, spanning 8 distinct robotic platforms with varying speeds and dy-
namics. For more details about the dataset, see Appendix C.
Deployment: ViNT can run on any robot equipped with an onboard camera and a low-level velocity
tracking controller. Given a subgoal image s at time t, we run the model at 4Hz, and use a PD
controller to track the predicted waypoints ˆa in a receding-horizon fashion.
4
Long-Horizon Navigation with ViNT
While the goal-conditioned policy learned by ViNT captures a general understanding of navigational
affordances and obstacles, it has limited applicability on its own. Many practical tasks are either not
defined by goal images, or require a much longer horizon than what ViNT directly supports. We
apply ViNT to several downstream applications by combining it with an episodic memory formed
by a topological graph, which provides short-horizon subgoals for reaching faraway locations. In
previously unseen environments, we can further augment this graph-based planner with exploratory
subgoal proposals, which can drive ViNT to explore a new environment and discover a path to
the goal. We consider multiple such proposal mechanisms and find that maximum performance is
attained by an image diffusion model that samples diverse future subgoal candidates conditioned on
the current observation.
These subgoals are scored with a goal-directed heuristic to identify the best subgoal that makes
progress towards the goal using a process akin to physical A∗ search [29]. Past observations in the
environment and unexplored frontiers are stored as nodes in a topological graph, with their connec-
tivity determined by the distances predicted by ViNT. During exploration, we build this topological
graph on the fly as the robot explores the environment. During later deployments it may be used
4