(a) Quadruped robot
(b) Dexterous manipulator robot
(c) Example rollout for the two robots.
Figure 3: The two robots used in our experiments and sampled tasks. (a) a Quadruped robot with 12 DoFs. (b) a
dexterous manipulator robot with 27 DoFs. (c) example rollouts produced by our algorithm.
LLM generates a plan for the robot motion using a set of pre-defined robot primitive skills instead of
reward functions. For the Code-as-Policies (CaP) baseline, we design the primitive skills based on common
commands available to the robot. Due to limited space we put the full list of primitives in Appendix A.3.
4.3
Tasks
We design nine tasks for the quadruped robot and eight tasks for the dexterous manipulator to evaluate
the performance of our system. Fig. 3 shows samples of the tasks. The full list of tasks can be found in
Appendix A.2. Videos of sampled tasks can also be found in supplementary video and project website 4.
For the quadruped robot, the tasks can be categorized into four types: 1) Heading direction control, where
the system needs to interpret indirect instructions about the robot’s heading direction and to control the robot
to face the right direction (e.g., identify the direction of sunrise or sunset). 2) Body pose control, where we
evaluate the ability of the system to understand and process commands to have the robot reach different body
poses, inspired by common commands issued by human to dogs such as sit and roll over. 3) Limb control,
where we task the system to lift particular foot of the robot. Furthermore, we also test the ability of the system
to take additional instructions to modify an existing skill, such turn in place with lifted feet. 4) Locomotion
styles, where we evaluate our proposed system in generating different locomotion styles. In particular, we
design a challenging task of having the quadruped stand up on two back feet to walk in a bipedal mode.
For the dexterous manipulator, we design tasks to test its ability to achieve different types of interactions
with objects such as lifting, moving, and re-orienting. We test the system on a diverse set of objects with
significantly different shapes and sizes (Fig. 3) for each task. We further include two tasks that involves
interacting with articulated objects of different joint types.
4.4
Evaluation results
For each task and method considered, we generate 10 responses from Reward Translator, each evaluated in
MJPC for 50 times, thus we measure the end-to-end stability of the full pipeline. Fig. 4 shows the results for
both robots. Our proposed approach achieves significantly higher success rate for 11/17 task categories and
comparable performance for the rest tasks, showing the effectiveness and reliability of the proposed method.