User
Make the robot stand upright on two back feet like a human.
Good, you actually don't need to keep the front paws at certain height, 
just leave it to the controller.
Good, now make the robot do a moonwalk.
Moon walk means the robot should walk backward while the feet 
swings as if they are moving forward. Correct your answer.
User
Open the drawer.
Good, now put the apple inside the drawer while keep it open.
Good, now release the apple and move hand away.
Now close the drawer.
(a) The quadruped perform a moon-walk.                        
 (b) The manipulator places an apple in the drawer.
Figure 5: The two interactive examples using our proposed system.
User
Lift the apple
User
Lift the cube
State Estimation
Real
Sim
Planned Trajectory
#python
set_l2_distance_reward(
"gripper", "apple")  
set_obj_z_position_reward(
"apple",  0.5)
set_sim2real_regularization_re
ward()
#python
set_l2_distance_reward(
"gripper", "cube")  
set_obj_z_position_reward(
"cube",  0.5)
set_sim2real_regularizatio
n_reward()
Figure 6: Implementation and rollouts of the proposed system in the real world.
beyond the capabilities of current real hardwares. To mitigate this issue, we design a regularization residual
term specific to encourage steady and stable robot movements when applying our system to the real robot
(set_sim2real_regularization_reward() in Fig. 6, see Appendix A.6.3 for details for this term).
We demonstrate sim-to-real transfer on two tasks: object pushing and object grasping. Our system is able
to generate relevant reward code and the Mujoco MPC is able to synthesize the pushing and grasping
motion. For rollouts please refer to the supplementary video/website and Fig. 7.
5
Discussion and Conlusion
In this work, we investigate a new paradigm for interfacing an LLM with a robot through reward functions,
powered by a low-level model predictive control tool, MuJoCo MPC. Using reward function as the interface
enables LLMs to work in a semantic-rich space that play to the strengths of LLMs, while ensures the
expressiveness of the resulting controller. To further improve the performance of the system, we propose
to use a motion description template to better extract internal knowledge about robot motions from LLMs.
We evaluate our proposed system on two simulated robotic platforms: a quadruped robot and a dexterous
manipulator robot. We apply our approach to both robots to acquire a wide variety of skills. Compared to
alternative methods that do not use reward as the interface, or do not use the motion description template, our
method achieves significantly better performance in terms of stability and the number of tasks it can solve.
Limitations and Future Work. Though we show that our system can obtain a diverse set of skills through
natural language interactions, there are a few limitations. First, we currently design templates of motion
descriptions for each type of robot morphology, which requires manual work. An interesting future direction
is to unify or automate the template design to make the system easily extendable to novel robot morphologies.
Second, our method currently relies on language as the interaction interface with human users. As such,
it can be challenging to design tasks that are not easily described in language (e.g., “walk gracefully"). One
potential way to mitigate this issue is to extend the system to multi-modal inputs to allow richer forms of
user interactions (e.g., by showing a video of the desirable behavior). Thirdly, we currently use pre-defined
reward terms whose weights and parameters are modulated by the LLMs. Constraining the reward design
space helps improve stability of the system while sacrifices some flexibility. For example, our current design
does not support time-varying rewards and would require re-designing the prompt to support that. Enabling
LLMs to reliably design reward functions from scratch is thus an important and fruitful research direction.
8