Prediction set size
Human help rate
Figure 4: Comparison of task success rate vs average prediction set size
(Left) and vs. human help rate (Right) in Simulation averaged over the three
settings. 200 trials are run for each method. ϵ is varied from 0.25 to 0.01 for
KNOWNO, and from 0.6 to 0.01 for Simple Set and Ensemble Set. Binary
and No Help are not shown on the left since prediction sets are not provided.
are two main drawbacks. First, we
find in some scenarios that even
with 20 randomized prompts, the
LLM can fail to choose the correct
option and thus assigns zero proba-
bility to it. As shown in Fig. 4, this
means that Ensemble Set can fail
to improve once it reaches some
level of human help. Second, it re-
quires 20× inference time compared to other methods. Investigating how to lower the computational
burden and combining ensemble-based probabilities with CP can be a fruitful future direction.
4.2
Hardware: Multi-Step Tabletop Rearrangement
In this example, a UR5 robot arm is asked to sort a variety of toy food items on a table (Fig. 5 left). In
each scenario, three items are placed on the table initially, and the task is to sort them based on human
preferences; we simulate a human with strong preferences for healthy food like eggs and fruits, and dislike
for less healthy food like donuts and Skittles candies. To introduce ambiguities, the context for the LLM
reveals only a subset of the preferences. Here we consider a multi-step setting with possibly multiple
acceptable options per step — the LLM plans the new step conditioned on the previous action taken.
KNOWNO reduces step-wise and trial-wise intervention rates in multi-step setting.
Since Section 4.1
has shown that Ensemble Set can be expensive (even more so in the multi-step setting) and Prompt Set
and Binary can fail to achieve the user-specified success level, we focus on comparing KNOWNO with
Simple Set for the remainder of the evaluation. Here we set the desired error level ϵ=0.25. Since Simple
Set does not provide calibrated coverage, we first find ϵ=0.42 for Simple Set to achieve the same planning
error rate as KNOWNO in simulation. Then we run 50 trials for both methods in hardware. Table 1 shows
7