Figure 9: The overview framework of COEDIT. The
figure is copied from Raheja et al. (2023).
comprises approximately 82K <instruction: source,
target> pairs. As shown in Figure 9, the model
takes instructions from the user specifying the
characteristics of the desired text, such as "Make
the sentence simpler", and outputs the edited text.
CoEdIT achieves state-of-the-art performance on
several text editing tasks, including grammatical
error correction, text simplification, iterative text
editing, and three stylistic editing tasks: formality
style transfer, neutralization, and paraphrasing.
Furthermore, it can generalize well to new, adjacent
tasks not seen during fine-tuning.
CoPoet
(Chakrabarty
et
al.,
2022)
is
a
collaborative poetry writing tool that utilizes a
large language model (e.g. T5-3B, T5-11B and
T0-3B models) trained on a diverse collection of
instructions for poetry writing. Each sample in
the instruction dataset includes an <instruction,
poem_line> pair. There are three major types of
instructions: Continuation, Lexical Constraints,
and Rhetorical Techniques. The CoPoet is guided
by user instructions that specify desired attributes
of the poetry, such as writing a sentence about
"love" or ending a sentence with "fly." Not
only is the system competitive with publicly
available LLMs trained on instructions, such as
InstructGPT (Ouyang et al., 2022), but it is
also capable of satisfying unseen compositional
instructions.
6.6
Medical
Radiology-GPT
(Liu et al., 2023c) is a fine-
tuned Alpaca-7B (Taori et al., 2023) model for
radiology, which utilizes an instruction tuning
approach on an extensive dataset of radiology
domain knowledge.
Radiology reports usually
include two corresponding sections: "Findings"
and "Impression". The "Findings" section contains
detailed observations from the radiology images,
while the "Impression" section summarizes the
interpretations drawn from those observations.
Radiology-GPT provides a brief instruction to
the "Findings" text: "Derive the impression from
findings in the radiology report". The "Impression"
text from the same report serves as the target
output. In comparison to general language models
such as StableLM (Islamovic), Dolly (Conover
et al., 2023), and LLaMA (Touvron et al.,
2023a), Radiology-GPT demonstrates significant
adaptability in radiological diagnosis, research, and
communication.
ChatDoctor
(Li et al., 2023g) is based
on
the
fine-tuned
LLaMa-7B
(Touvron
et
al.,
2023a)
model,
utilizing
the
alpaca
instruction dataset (Taori et al., 2023) and the
HealthCareMagic100k patient-doctor dialogue
dataset. And prompt templates are designed for
retrieving external knowledge databases, such
as the Disease Database and Wikipedia retrieval,
during doctor-patient conversations to obtain more
accurate outputs from the model. The ChatDoctor
significantly improves the model’s ability to
comprehend patient needs and provide informed
advice. By equipping the model with self-directed
information retrieval from reliable online and
offline sources, the accuracy of its responses is
substantially improved.
ChatGLM-Med
(Haochun Wang, 2023) is
fine-tuned on the Chinese medical instruction
dataset based on the ChatGLM-6B (Du et al.,
2022) model. The instruction dataset comprises
medically relevant question and answer pairs,
created using the GPT 3.5 API and the Medical
Knowledge Graph.
This model improves the
question-answering performance of ChatGLM (Du
et al., 2022) in the medical field.
6.7
Arithmetic
Goat
(Liu and Low, 2023) is a fine-tuned
LLaMA-7B (Touvron et al., 2023a) model based
on instructions, which aims to solve arithmetic
problems. It expresses arithmetic problems in the
form of natural language question answering, such
as "What is 8914/64?", by generating hundreds
of instruction templates using ChatGPT (OpenAI,
2022). The model applies various techniques to