Figure 1: Example of using SelfCheck, focusing on the checking of a particular step (Step 5). To
check the correctness of the step, SelfCheck goes through 4 stages. First, in the target extraction stage,
it figures out that the main purpose of Step 5 is to complete the square. In the information collection
stage, it then establishes that Step 5 only directly relies on Step 4. Next, the step regeneration
stage instructs the LLM to complete the square independently, only using Step 4 as context. The
regeneration result shows that the center and radius of the circle are (3, 0) and 3, which is different
from what is implied by the original Step 5. Consequently, the result comparison stage concludes that
Step 5 is likely to be wrong. After checking all the steps, SelfCheck integrates the results to form an
overall confidence score, w. See Appendix A for a complete version of the example.
3
SELFCHECK: USING LLMS TO CHECK THEIR OWN REASONING
Rather than relying on external resources or problem-specific data like the aforementioned approaches,
it would be highly beneficial if we could develop self-contained checking schemes that require only
the original LLM itself. In other words, we would like to use the LLM to identify errors in its own
step-by-step reasoning, analogously to how a human might go back to check their working.
Unfortunately, directly asking the LLM to check its own reasoning is largely ineffective: it almost
invariably declares that the original answer is correct, with Ling et al. (2023) finding answers checked
in this way are deemed correct more than 90% of the time regardless of whether they actually are. As
we will show in Section 5, individually prompting the LLM to check each step in the CoT reasoning
fares slightly better, but is still only able to offer marginal gains compared to not checking at all.
A more nuanced method to perform this checking is thus required. To this end, we introduce
SelfCheck, a general-purpose, zero-shot, checking schema for self-identifying errors in LLM CoT
reasoning. Given a question, q, and its step-by-step solution, s, produced by some generator (which
will generally be an LLM with appropriate CoT prompting), SelfCheck considers each step of s in
turn and tries to establish its individual correctness based on the preceding steps. This checking is
done by leveraging an LLM (which can either be the same LLM used to generate s or a separate
one), but rather than directly asking the LLM to perform the check, we instead introduce a novel step
checking method (see Section 3.1) that exploits their generative modeling strengths. The results of
the checks on individual steps are then combined into a single confidence score, w ∈ [0, 1], for the
whole solution. These confidence scores, in turn, allow us to improve predictive performance, by
using them to perform weighted voting on multiple solutions to the same question.
3