Figure 7: The fusion of segmentation results for multiple target regions within a single image. For
clarity of presentation, we visualized only the results of Bbox prompt and 1 point prompt.
to achieve the desired results. This is advantageous for data annotation or pseudolabel generation.
We attribute this phenomenon to SAM-Med2D acquiring domain-specific knowledge related to the
medical imaging field through learning from large-scale datasets. This aligns with the motivation of
this paper, which is to establish the foundation for SAM to move towards robust and reliable medical
image segmentation.
Figure 7 shows the results of merging multiple target regions within the same image. When the target
boundaries are clear, there are subtle visual differences between SAM and our SAM-Med2D. In
other cases, SAM-Med2D can achieve precise segmentation of parts that are difficult for the human
eye to identify. On the other hand, in the scenario of 1 pt prompt, SAM often fails on many organs
and struggles to locate the target region. This once again demonstrates that fine-tuning SAM on
large-scale data can lead to better domain transferability.
5
Discussion and Conclusion
In this study, we obtain SAM-Med2D by fine-tuning a SAM on a large-scale medical image dataset,
which is able to significantly improve various medical image segmentation tasks. We employed two
explicit prompts strategies to generate masks for quantitative and qualitative comparisons. At an
equal resolution, only the fine-tuned mask decoder (FT-SAM) achieved an improvement of 11.93%
in the Bbox prompt mode, while the fully fine-tuned SAM-Med2D achieved a 17.67% improvement.
Surprisingly, our approach demonstrated overwhelming superiority in the 1 pt prompt (18.94% vs.
70.01%). Furthermore, SAM-Med2D exhibited excellent generalization capabilities in both prompt
modes, indicating its practical value in the medical field.
We conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the model from different dimensions of the data. From
an anatomical perspective, at a resolution of 1024×1024, SAM had advantages over FT-SAM in
the chest, abdomen, and other regions, SAM-Med2D outperformed all other methods in overall
segmentation performance. Regarding different modalities, SAM demonstrated good generalization
when the target modality data resembled natural image attributes. We compared the two fine-tuning
methods on more than 30 major organs, and our SAM-Med2D achieved better results on 24 organs,
with a maximum improvement of 6.95% compared to FT-SAM. Additionally, our generalization
experiments on 9 publicly available datasets demonstrated strong domain transferability of models
pretrained on large-scale datasets. While the Bbox prompt always outperformed the 1 pt prompt,
adding more points significantly improved the segmentation results, surpassing even the Bbox mode.
13