modalities, complex tissue and organ structures, and few annotated data available [3, 4, 5]. This
limitation hinders the generalizability and adaptability of algorithms, making it challenging to apply
them across diverse clinical scenarios.
Figure 1: Comparison between examples in SA-1B (a) and in our dataset (b). SA-1B consists of 11M
natural images and their corresponding 1129M masks. Our dataset consists of 4.6M medical images
and their corresponding 19.7M masks.
Recently, the trend towards large-scale models has created a buzz throughout the AI field. The
emergence of general-AI models such as ChatGPT2, ERNIE Bot 3, DINO [6], SegGPT [7], SAM [8],
facilitates the use of a single model to address multiple tasks. As the latest large-scale vision model,
SAM enables users to generate masks for specific regions of interest through interactive clicking,
bounding boxes, or providing natural language prompts. Its zero-shot and few-shot capabilities on
natural images [9, 10] have garnered significant attention across various domains.
In the field of medical imaging, some works [11, 12, 13, 14, 15] have also focused on the zero-shot
capabilities of SAMs. However, due to the significant domain gap between natural images and
medical images, SAM struggles to generalize to multi-modal and multi-object medical datasets,
resulting in unstable segmentation performance across datasets. The reason can be attributed to the
data collection methods: medical images are collected from certain protocols and scanners and are
presented as different modalities (electrons, lasers, X-rays, ultrasound, nuclear physics, and magnetic
resonance) due to their particular clinical purpose. As such, these images are based on a range of
physics-based properties and energy sources, which differ greatly from natural images. As shown
in Figure 1, there are significant differences between natural images and medical images in terms
of pixel intensity, color, texture, and other distribution characteristics. Therefore, the limitation that
SAM cannot directly be applied to the medical domain is expected [11, 12, 13, 14, 15]: given that
SAM is trained on natural images only, it lacks specific knowledge related to medical imaging.
Equipping SAM with medical knowledge is hard because of the high annotation cost and the diverse
annotation quality. Preparing medical data requires domain knowledge and their quality varies
significantly across hospitals and clinical studies. These challenges have resulted in a significant
disparity between the quantities of medical images and natural images. The bar chart in Figure 1
compares the data volume of publicly available natural image datasets and medical image datasets.
For instance, Totalsegmentor, the largest public segmentation dataset in the medical domain, also
has a significant gap compared to Open Image v6 [42] and SA-1B [8]. In this study, our objective is
to transfer SAM from natural images to medical images. This will provide benchmark models and
evaluation frameworks for researchers in medical image analysis to explore and enhance. To achieve
this goal, we proposed SAM-Med2D, the most comprehensive studies on applying SAM to medical
2D images by addressing the following issues:
•
How to fine-tune SAM for the medical imaging domain?
1) We needed to incorporate knowledge about medical images into SAM, so we collected and
curated a medical image segmentation dataset comprising over 4.6M images and 19.7M masks. To
the best of our knowledge, this dataset represents the largest medical image segmentation dataset,
encompassing multiple modalities and covering comprehensive objects. Table 1 illustrates the
methods for fine-tuning SAM on specific limited-scale medical datasets. While these methods have
2https://chat.openai.com
3https://yiyan.baidu.com/
2