2.1.4
Economic negotiation
AI deception has also been observed in economic negotiations. A research team from Meta trained an
AI system to play a negotiation game with human participants (M. Lewis et al. 2017). Strikingly, the
AI system learned to misrepresent their preferences in order to gain the upper hand in the negotiation.
The AI’s deceptive plan was to initially feign interest in items that it had no real interest in, so that it
could later pretend to compromise by conceding these items to the human player. In fact, this was
the example of deception that the Meta team referenced when they admitted that their AI system
had “learnt to deceive without any explicit human design, simply by trying to achieve their goals”
(M. Lewis et al. 2017, p. 2).
The negotiation-game experiments of Schulz et al. (2023) also resulted in AI systems resorting to
deception. Despite not being explicitly trained to deceive, the AI learned to deceive the other party
via its actions in the negotiating game.
2.1.5
The social deduction game Werewolf
Werewolf is a social deduction game where disguised ‘werewolves’ murder the people of the village
one-by-one, and all surviving players need to discuss afterwards and vote on who to execute as an
alleged werewolf. Shibata et al. (2023) trained an AI system on human players’ game logs to play
Werewolf. In a similar vein, Lai et al. (2023) trained an AI system to reliably classify persuasive
behavior and predict game outcomes for Werewolf. Human annotators labeled video and text from
Werewolf games, sorting player behavior into one of six persuasive techniques (including presenting
evidence, defense, and accusation: see Figure 2). Then, an AI system was trained to classify each
persuasive technique to a high degree of accuracy. In addition, AI systems were successfully trained
to predict the game outcome.
“Okay you guys want to vote already.”
(Call for Action)
“What are you?” 
(Interrogation)
“I'm a seer, and I looked in there and I 
forgot what the card was.” 
(Identity Declaration and Evidence)
“Apparently, he’s troublemaker.”
(Accusation)
“There's no way I know I'm the 
werewolf right now.” (Defense)
…
…
…
…
player1 (werewolf ➜ seer)
player2 (seer ➜ werewolf)
player3 (troublemaker ➜ robber)
player4 (robber ➜ troublemaker)
“During troublemaker? Wait, no no we can 
do this because I was the robber.”
(Interrogation and Identity Declaration)
player2
player3
player2
player2
Vote
Starting Role ➜ Ending Role
Figure 2: Persuasion techniques from the social deduction game Werewolf are sorted into categories, and
reliably classified by AI systems (Lai et al. 2023, Fig. 1).
Current AI systems can learn to understand deception in the game of Werewolf, in that they are able
to successfully lie, reliably detect other players’ lies, and effectively predict how players would be
influenced by deception attempts (to the point of accurately predicting game outcomes).
2.1.6
Cheating the safety test
In the Volkswagen emissions scandal, the automaker programmed its diesel-engine technology to
pollute at a low rate only when its emissions were being tested (Jung et al. 2019). When not under test
conditions, the Volkswagen vehicles were programmed to resume their normal operation, emitting
4