(i.e., bounding box, points, and mask). In addition, we comprehensively analyze the performance and
challenges of our method in medical image segmentation by considering different imaging modalities,
anatomical structures, and organs in medical images.
Zero-shot evaluation of SAM in medical imaging. Recent studies have reported the zero-shot per-
formance of SAM in medical image segmentation. Deng et al. [27] investigated SAM’s segmentation
capabilities on tumor and tissue tasks under different prompt conditions, and the experimental results
show that SAM performs better only on segmenting large connected objects. Hu et al. [28] evaluated
the impact of point prompts on SAM’s performance in multi-phase liver tumor segmentation in CT
volumes. The results demonstrated that SAM’s performance improved as the number of point prompts
increased. Zhou et al. [12] tested SAM’s performance in colonoscopy polyp segmentation without
prompts, and the results indicated significant room for improvement when applying SAM to polyp
segmentation tasks. Cheng et al. [29] extensively evaluated the following models on 12 open-source
medical image datasets: promptless models, models with 1, 3, and 10-point prompts, and models with
box prompts with 5 different jitter levels. The performance of SAM was generally lower compared
to state-of-the-art results. Similarly, Huang et al. [15] evaluated the zero-shot performance of SAM
on 52 public datasets using three different prompts, and the evaluation results consistently showed
unsatisfactory performance of SAM across various medical image segmentation tasks. We believe
that analyzing SAM’s performance on large-scale medical image datasets is crucial. This can help
the community gain a better understanding of the factors influencing the model’s ability to perceive
medical objects. These factors can contribute to the improved development of general medical
segmentation methods. Therefore, this study provides a comprehensive evaluation of SAM-Med2D
from multiple perspectives.
Figure 3: Overview of the dataset used in this study. (a) A total of 31 major organs, along with
their corresponding anatomical structures, with an asterisk (*) denoting the presence of lesion labels
within the dataset. (b) The distribution of modalities along with their corresponding proportions in
the dataset are presented (scaled logarithmically). (c) The number of images and masks categorized
by anatomical structure, along with the total count encompassing the dataset.
3
Methods
3.1
Incorporation of Medical Knowledge into SAM
Recent research has reaffirmed the pivotal role of training data volume in the learning capacity of
large models [7, 8, 23]. By learning from larger-scale data, models can acquire richer domain-specific
knowledge and adapt better to various application scenarios. Though trained on over 1B masks,
SAM achieves suboptimal performance in the realm of medical image analysis due to the significant
5