Large model sizes are not widely accessible and
can be slow and expensive to run. We experiment
with labeling preferences with different model sizes
and observe a strong relationship between align-
ment and size. Alignment drops -4.2% when mov-
ing from PaLM 2 Large (L) down to PaLM 2 Small
(S), and it drops another -11.1% when moving
down to PaLM 2 XS. This trend is consistent with
scaling laws observed in other work (Kaplan et al.,
2020). One contributing factor to the decline in
performance could be the increase in position bias
in smaller LLMs (see Appendix A).
On the end of this trend, these results also sug-
gest that scaling up AI labeler size may produce
even higher quality preference labels. Since the AI
labeler is only used to generate preference exam-
ples once and is not queried during RL training,
using an even larger AI labeler is not necessarily
prohibitively expensive. Furthermore, Section 5.5
suggests that a small number of examples may be
sufficient to train a powerful RM (e.g. on the or-
der of O(1k)), further reducing the costs of using a
larger labeler model.
5.5
Number of Preference Examples
To understand how RM accuracy changes with the
number of training examples, we train a RM on
We observe that the performance of the AI pref-
erence RM quickly plateaus after training on a few
thousand examples. The RM achieves ∼60% ac-
curacy when training on only 128 examples and
then reaches an accuracy close to that of training
on the full dataset when training with only 5,000
examples (roughly 1
20 of the full dataset).
We also conduct a parallel set of experiments
on a RM trained on human preferences. We find
that the human and AI RMs follow similar scaling
curves. One difference is that the human preference
RM appears to continually improve as the number
of training examples increases, though more train-
ing examples only bring small improvements to
accuracy. This trend suggests that RMs trained on
AI preferences may not benefit as much from scal-
ing up the number of training examples as RMs
trained on human preferences.
Given the limited improvement from scaling up
the number of AI preference examples, more re-
sources may be better spent on labeling with larger
model sizes (see Section 5.4) rather than labeling
more preference examples.
6
Qualitative Analysis
To better understand how RLAIF compares to
RLHF, we manually inspected summaries gener-
ated by both policies. In many cases, the two poli-