debate surrounding the existence of artificial agents (§ 2.1). Next, we take the lens of technological
trends to provide a concise historical review of the development of AI agents (§ 2.2). Finally, we
delve into an in-depth introduction of the essential characteristics of agents and elucidate why large
language models are well-suited to serve as the main component of brains or controllers for AI agents
(§ 2.3).
Inspired by the definition of the agent, we present a general conceptual framework for the LLM-
based agents with three key parts: brain, perception, and action (§ 3), and the framework can be
tailored to suit different applications. We first introduce the brain, which is primarily composed of
a large language model (§ 3.1). Similar to humans, the brain is the core of an AI agent because it
not only stores crucial memories, information, and knowledge but also undertakes essential tasks
of information processing, decision-making, reasoning, and planning. It is the key determinant of
whether the agent can exhibit intelligent behaviors. Next, we introduce the perception module (§
3.2). For an agent, this module serves a role similar to that of sensory organs for humans. Its primary
function is to expand the agent’s perceptual space from text-only to a multimodal space that includes
diverse sensory modalities like text, sound, visuals, touch, smell, and more. This expansion enables
the agent to better perceive information from the external environment. Finally, we present the action
module for expanding the action space of an agent (§ 3.3). Specifically, we expect the agent to be
able to possess textual output, take embodied actions, and use tools so that it can better respond to
environmental changes and provide feedback, and even alter and shape the environment.
After that, we provide a detailed and thorough introduction to the practical applications of LLM-
based agents and elucidate the foundational design pursuit—“Harnessing AI for good” (§ 4). To start,
we delve into the current applications of a single agent and discuss their performance in text-based
tasks and simulated exploration environments, with a highlight on their capabilities in handling
specific tasks, driving innovation, and exhibiting human-like survival skills and adaptability (§ 4.1).
Following that, we take a retrospective look at the development history of multi-agents. We introduce
the interactions between agents in LLM-based multi-agent system applications, where they engage in
5