Sec. 2.3 Interleaved Image-text Inputs
Interleaved Image-text Pairs
Prompt:
How much should I pay for the beer on the table 
according to the price on the menu?
Here is a photo of the menu.
GPT-4V:
According to the menu, the price for a Magna beer 
is $6. Since there are two Magna beers on the table, 
the total cost for the beers would be $12.
Prompt:
How much did I pay for tax?
Where is the information?
GPT-4V:
In the first receipt, you paid $3.72 for tax. The 
information is located at the bottom of the receipt. In 
the second receipt, you paid $42.23 for tax. The 
information is located near the bottom of the receipt, 
under the "Sales Tax" line. In the third receipt, you paid 
$4.58 for tax. The information is located at the bottom 
of the receipt, under the "TAX" line. In total, you paid 
$50.53 in tax across all three receipts.
Prompt Continued
Figure 1: GPT-4V can work with multi-image and interleaved image-text inputs. Check Section 2.3
for detailed discussions.
2.3
Interleaved Image-text Inputs
The generality of GPT-4V is further enhanced by its ability to handle flexibly interleaved image-text
inputs. The interleaved image-text inputs can be either visually centric such as multiple images
with a short question or instruction, text-centric such as a long webpage with two inserted images,
or a balanced mixture of images and texts. This mode of mixed input provides flexibility for a
wide array of applications. For example, it can compute the total tax paid across multiple receipt
images, as shown in Figure 1. It also enables processing multiple input images and extracting queried
information. GPT-4V could also effectively associate information across interleaved image-text
inputs, such as finding the beer price on the menu, counting the number of beers, and returning the
total cost, as shown in Figure 1. Beyond direct applications, processing interleaved image-text inputs
serves as a fundamental component for in-context few-shot learning and other advanced test-time
prompting techniques, thereby further boosting GPT-4V’s generality. We demonstrate these intriguing
novel usages in the next section, Section 3.
11