SOP
Human-Agent
   Interaction
Figure 1: Illustration of the AGENTS framework.
et al., 2023a], web navigation [Nakano et al., 2021], tool usage [Schick et al., 2023], and multi-
agent communication [Foerster et al., 2016]. In addition, most (if not all) existing language agent
frameworks solely depend on a short task description and rely completely on the abilities of LLMs to
plan and act. This results in significant randomness and inconsistency across different runs, delivering
an unsatisfactory user experience and making it hard to customize and tune language agents.
We believe the aforementioned limitations are important barriers for recent advances in language
agents to reach a broader non-specialist audience and impact our society in a positive way. To this
end, we release AGENTS, an open-source library and framework for language agents dedicated to
supporting LLM-powered language agents. AGENTS’s philosophy is to make customizing, tuning,
and deploying language agents as simple as possible even for non-specialists while also remaining
easily extensible for developers and researchers. In addition, the library also provides the following
key features that make it a versatile framework for language agents:
Long-short term memory
According to Franklin and Graesser [1996], a key difference between
autonomous agents and computer programs (or machine learning models) is that machine learning
models only need to respond to a single input/query, while autonomous agents need to interact with
environments or other agents over time. Therefore, the ability to maintain long-short term memory is
very important for autonomous agents. AGENTS integrates the memory components in [Zhou et al.,
2023a] and enables language agents to store and retrieve long-term memory with VectorDB and
semantic search, and regularly update a short-term working memory with a scratchpad. Users can
choose to equip an agent with long-term memory, short-term memory, or both of them by simply
filling in a field in the config file.
Tool usage & Web navigation
Another important feature for autonomous agents is the ability to
use external tools and surf the internet. This is especially important for language agents because
they rely on the language interface and thus need to use external tools to interact with environments
beyond language communication and navigate the web to gather useful information. Following [Patil
et al., 2023], AGENTS supports a few commonly used external APIs and provides an abstract class
that enables developers to integrate other tools with ease. We also enable agents to navigate the
internet and gather information by defining web search and web navigation as specialized APIs.