Environment
Environment
Figure 1: Different uses of large language models (LLMs). A: In natural language processing (NLP), an LLM
takes text as input and outputs text. B: Language agents (Ahn et al., 2022; Huang et al., 2022c) place the
LLM in a direct feedback loop with the external environment by transforming observations into text and
using the LLM to choose actions. C: Cognitive language agents (Yao et al., 2022b; Shinn et al., 2023; Wang
et al., 2023a) additionally use the LLM to manage the agent’s internal state via processes such as learning
and reasoning. In this work, we propose a blueprint to structure such agents.
Kotseruba and Tsotsos, 2020). We suggest a meaningful analogy between production systems and LLMs: just
as productions indicate possible ways to modify strings, LLMs define a distribution over changes or additions
to text. This further suggests that controls from cognitive architectures used with production systems might
be equally applicable to transform LLMs into language agents.
Thus, we propose Cognitive Architectures for Language Agents (CoALA), a conceptual framework to
understand existing language agents and help develop new ones. CoALA organizes agents along three
key dimensions: their information storage (divided into working and long-term memories); their action
space (divided into internal and external actions); and their decision-making procedure (which is structured
as an interactive loop with planning and execution).
Through these three concepts (memory, action,
and decision-making), we show CoALA can neatly express a large body of diverse agents and identify
underexplored directions. Notably, while several recent papers propose conceptual architectures for general
intelligence (LeCun, 2022; McClelland et al., 2019) or empirically survey language models and agents (Mialon
et al., 2023; Weng, 2023; Wang et al., 2023b), this paper combines elements of both: we propose a theoretical
framework and use it to organize diverse empirical work. This grounds our theory to existing practices and
allows us to identify both short-term and long-term directions for future work.
The plan for the rest of the paper is as follows. Section 2 introduces production systems and cognitive
architectures, and Section 3 outlines their parallels with LLMs and language agents. Section 4 introduces
the CoALA framework, and surveys and organizes diverse language agents accordingly. Section 5 provides
a deeper case study of several prominent agents. Section 6 suggests actionable steps to construct future
language agents, while Section 7 highlights open questions in the broader arc of cognitive science and AI.
Fi
ll
S
ti
8
l d
R
d
i t
t d i
li d
t d
i
i
iti
S
ti
4 6