Figure 5: Space and time neurons in Llama-2 models. Depicts the result of projecting activation
datasets onto neuron weights compared to true space or time coordinates with Spearman correlation
by entity type.
output weights that have high cosine similarity with the learned probe direction. That is, we search
for neurons which read from or write to a direction similar to the one learned by the probe.
We find that when we project the activation datasets on to the weights of the most similar neurons,
these neurons are indeed highly sensitive to the true location of entities in space or time (see Fig-
ure 5). In other words, there exist individual neurons within the model that are themselves fairly
predictive feature probes. Moreover, these neurons are sensitive to all of the entity types within our
datasets, providing stronger evidence for the claim these representations are unified.
If probes trained with explicit supervision are an approximate upper bound on the extent to which a
model represents these spatial and temporal features, then the performance of individual neurons is
a lower bound. In particular, we generally expect features to be distributed in superposition (Elhage
et al., 2022b), making individual neurons the wrong level of analysis. Nevertheless, the existence
of these individual neurons, which received no supervision other than from next-token prediction, is
very strong evidence that the model has learned and makes use of spatial and temporal features.
6
RELATED WORK
Neural World Models
Our work is most directly inspired by prior research into the extent to
which deep learning systems form interpretable models of their data generating process. The clean-
est demonstrations have from come from GPT style models trained on chess (Toshniwal et al., 2022)
and Othello games (Li et al., 2022) which were shown to have explicit representations of the board
and game state. Subsequent work on Othello has shown these representations are also linear (Nanda
et al., 2023). In true language models, Li et al. (2021) show that an entity’s dynamic properties