Source
Caption
Alt-Text (LAION-2B)
Latest 1PC Transparent Gradient Color Voile
Window
Curtain
BLIP2-OPT-2.7B
A living room with a white couch and curtains
Figure 5: Original vs. BLIP-2-generated captions for an image from LAION-2B. BLIP-2 generates
a caption that better aligns with what a human would write. See Figure 14 for more examples.
Figure 4:
CommonCatalog-C contains images
licensed only for commercial use; -NC contains -C
as well as images licensed for non-commercial use.
Dataset
# Images
% Alt Text
CommonCatalog-C
26,232,417
30.76%
CommonCatalog-NC
67,015,331
31.22%
We exclude images with non-derivative (ND)
licenses. The remaining images can be further
divided into those that can be used for com-
mercial (C) purposes and those that cannot
(non-commercial/ NC). As shown in Ta-
ble 4, we accordingly construct two datasets,
CommonCatalog-C
and
CommonCatalog-
NC. We defer additional details about licenses
to Appendix B.1.1, but emphasize that all of the images included have open licenses: individuals are
free to use, adapt, and remix the images, so long as they attribute them. In total, CommonCatalog
contains roughly 70 million NC CC-images, of which a subset of approximately 25 million images
can also be used commercially.
Directly sourcing CommonCatalog avoids some concerns (Section 2.2); however, it also comes with
its own challenges. For one, CC images rarely have the alt-text captions necessary to train a T2I
model like Stable Diffusion (Figure 4); those that do have associated text often just include the
image title or a URL. For another, we could only find roughly 70 million usable CC images, which
pales in comparison to the billions of images in LAION used to train SD2 (Section 5). We take each
of these challenges in turn. First, in the next subsection, we show how we instantiate telephoning
(Section 3) to produce high-quality, synthetic captions for CC images.
4.2
Synthesizing captions with telephoning
We compared several captioning models and, based on qualitative analysis and its state-of-the-art
performance on MS COCO, chose to use the pre-trained BLIP-2 OPT2.5B model for synthesizing
CommonCatalog’s captions [34]. BLIP-2 consists of three components: a pre-trained, frozen (i.e.,
fixed) visual encoder, a learned transformer network that converts the visual embeddings into a text
prompt, and a frozen large language model (LLM) that takes in the prompt. The only trainable
variables in the transformers are between the frozen visual encoder and frozen LLM layers.
Given a LAION-2B image as input, we found that the resulting BLIP-2 caption is often qualitatively
more descriptive than the corresponding LAION-2B ground-truth alt-text caption. LAION-2B cap-
tions often contain product names, irrelevant details, or poor grammar and syntax (Figure 5). This
finding is corroborated by Nguyen et al. [42], which shows quantitatively (in terms of CLIP Score)
that BLIP-2 captions are higher quality than ground-truth captions, at the cost of caption diversity.
Based on these preliminary results, we captioned all of the YFCC100M Creative-Commons images,
which required about 1,120 GPU A100 hours. To do so, we center-cropped and resized all of the
images to a maximum size of 512x512 pixels. We perform these transformations because captioning