Language
Video
Line
Beams
Branch
Branch
Performance
1
1
1
4%
1
1
4
10%
1
4
4
22%
2
4
4
56%
Beam 1, Branch 1
Beam 2, Branch 16
Figure 3: Video Accuracy vs Planning Budget. Left: VLP scales positively with more compute budget; it is
better able to synthesize plans to solve tasks with more planning (i.e. with a higher beam-search branching factor).
Success percentage reported on the make line task. Right: Qualitative illustration of video plans for making
a line generated without planning (Beam 1, Branch 1) compared to extensive planning (Beam 2, Branch 16).
✕
Action 1. Place apple in top drawer
Put the fruits into 
the top drawer
Action 1. Open top drawer
Action 1. Place banana in top drawer
Action 2. Place banana in top drawer
Action 3. Place coke can in top drawer
Action 3. Place apple in top drawer
Action 3. Close top drawer
Action 4. Close top drawer
✕
✕
✓
✕
Figure 4: Planning Tree on 7DoF Mobile Manipulator. VLP is able to prune unlikely language and video
branches to synthesize a coherent long-horizon video plan.
Object Rearrangement.
We first illustrate video plans in the Language Table environment (Lynch
et al., 2023). We give as input to VLP a random image and randomly chosen language goal. We
then visualize the generated VLP plans (Fig. 2). We report the quantitative success of synthesizing
long-horizon videos given random starting images for each task in Language Table in Tab. 1. For
each reported number, we generated a total of 50 videos from each method and visually assessed the
percentage of time the video successfully solved the given task. VLP substantially outperforms the
baseline of directly synthesizing videos given a long-horizon prompt, indicating the importance of
hierarchical structure. VLP further outperforms the ablation of only using a VLM policy with a video
model, pointing to the effectiveness of the VLP planning procedure and including the value function.
Effect of Search of Video Synthesis.
We analyze the effect of search in generating long-horizon
videos in Fig. 3 (left). We consider increasing the video branching, language branching and the
beams in the search procedure. We find that each increase of branching factor in search substantially
increases the success of synthesized long horizon plans. A qualitative illustration of the difference of
generated plans with small and large branching factor is illustrated in Fig. 3 (right).
Planning on 7DoF Mobile Manipulators.
We qualitatively illustrate how we can generate plans
on a higher-DoF, 7DoF Mobile Manipulator in Fig. 4. Our planning system is able to generate videos
of actions that both open and close drawers in order to satisfy specified text prompts.
Planning on Multicamera 14DoF Bi-Manual Manipulators.
We further illustrate how our
approach can generate multi-view 4-camera videos of dexterous manipulation on the 14DoF bi-
manual ALOHA (Zhao et al., 2023) platform in Fig. 5. Our video model outputs videos across